750-1500 words

Your task in this assignment is to introduce the topic of crowdsourcing science to your readers and inform them about the central issues.

When Jeff Howe first coined the term "crowd-sourcing" in a 2006 article for **Wired** magazine, there was already growing excitment for what seemed like a promising new paradigm. Citing the successes of a user-contributed stock photo company, reality TV shows, and R&D by home scientists, Howe presented crowdsourcing as the democratic brother to outsourcing, where the laborer, self-selecting, was welcome regardless of not only nationality but professional background. Declaring a new era, he welcomed the reader into "the age of the crowd".

Still, Howe was careful to point out potential and existing challenges for the emerging labor model. It was a whole new labor pool, and with it came new rules that he claimed common to crowdsource contributors regardless of task and field. His description of the Crowd is Hobbesian, with "a short attention span", producing "mostly crap", although in the end it's worth it, because the Crowd always manages to "find the best stuff" in the end.

Although dense with hyperbole, Howe wasn't far off in his early judgement of the nature of crowdsourcing. Nearly a decade later, while crowdsourcing techniques continue to gain momentum in a variety fields, the fundamental concerns remain the same, with additional ones arising from the changing terrain of technology along with the emergence of new fields, such as the rise of digital humantiies.

It is the diversity of the crowd-- that which gives crowdsourcing projects the ability to shine where traditional approaches have failed (as Howe notes, the odds of a contributor solving a problem actually increases when they have no formal training in that area)-- that also makes both the process and the product hard to judge. Because contributors can come from a wide variety of backgrounds and skillsets, they are often united only by a focused interest in the subject or activity area, whether amateur or professional. Beyond that, motivations vary by particpant-- whether personal or altruistic, extrinsic or intrinsic. In fact, the term crowdsourcing itself can be misleading-- most crowdsourcing projects involve not crowds, which are defined as large anonymous masses of people, but call on the participation of those members of the public with a particular interest and engagement in the task at hand (Dunn and Hedges).

Further complications arise 






Attempts to Typologies helpful but also hard in emerging fields (go thru some typologies and applicablility)






Laborers/division of labor
Hardest gathering/filtering --> inefficient?
Crowd Science
How about digital humanities?
Remains extremely attractive to policy makers et al (high returns)
Typologies help us understand them
CS systems help us deal with them

